Azure SQL Ecosystem 

Azure SQL is built upon the familiar SQL server engine, the migration of the application can be implemented with ease and use the SQL server tools, tSQL, 
resources. 

a. Azure SQL database - modern intelligent managed database instance which includes serverless compute functionality. Azure SQL db is PaaS db. 

b. Azure SQL Managed instance - modernize the applications with existing SQL Server applications at scale with an intelligent fully managed instance as a 
service, with alsmost 100% compatibility with native SQL server database engine. It's PaaS offering.

Scenarios

- Azure SQL managed instance new/existing apps which requires native on-prem SQL Server db engine features which are required to be migrate to cloud. 

- An instance of Azure SQL managed instance is similar to the instance of SQL Server database engine offering shared resources for database & additional
instance-scope features. 

- SQL managed instance allows db migration from on-prem to Azure with minimal/no db changes. This option provides all of the benefits of PaaS that Azure 
SQL db offers including additional capabilities like virtual networking, SQL server access and feature compatibility.   

c. SQL Server on Azure VM - lift/shift of legacy applications, rehost of apps which requires 100% of on-prem SQL server compatibility & OS level access. 
Maintain & manage all native SQL Server core administrative functionality(SQL server mirroring, broker services, SQL Server Agent, MDM etc.) 
It's an IaaS offering. 

Scenarios

- SQL Server db engine offering either in Windows/Linux OS of Azure VMs

- SQL Azure VMs offer full administrative controls over the SQL server instance & underlying OS for migration of db to Azure 

- full control of maintaining OS patch updates, db services start/stop , recovery services 

- Optimized for migrating the existing applications to Azure for hybrid deployments. Full administrative rights over a dedicated SQL server instance and 
cloud hosted VM. 


Data Security of Azure SQL 

1. advanced threat detection 

2. tSQL authentication, networking & key management 

3. take advantage of compliance of cloud database service 
